Please answer the below Data Structure Questions:

why do we need data structure?
They increase the efficiency and performance of a program by organizing data in such a manner.

What are the various operations that can be performed on different Data Structures?
Insertion, Deletion, Searching, Sorting, Traversal

List out the areas in which data structures are applied extensively?
Database management, Compile, DBMS, Operating System

what is an Array?
An array stores multiple values in a single variable instead of having to declare separate variables for each value.

what is the difference between the Array and ArrayList?
The ArrayList class is a resizable array and it is found in the java.util package, while the array is the storage of the multiple values in the single variable.
Array is a fixed length data structure and ArrayList is a variable length and can be changed.

what is LinkedList?
They are used to implement stacks and queues.
With the LinkedList you can add, change, and remove items as well as clearing the list.

How is an Array different from Linked List?
They ArrayList has a regular array inside of it, while the LinkedList has containers to store their items in.
The list has a connection to the first container and the rest of the containers are connected and so on.

what is queue?
It is an interface and It provides the functionality of the queue data structure and it extends the Collection interface.
It can also be used to store elements before they are used.
It applies the concept of first in first out, last in last out.

what is stack?
A stack is a collection that is under list and it follows last in first out.

what is FIFO and LIFO?
First in First out, Last in First Out

what is the order of complexity?
This is when we refer to the Big-O notation.

what is the best case to search an element from an array?
Sequential search

what is the worst case to search an element from an array?
Big O annotation

what is tree in data structure?
Tree is a connection where we have a parent and child relationship.
Each parent has child and the hierarchy of the relationship organizes the data objects.

what is graph in data structure?
A graph is a non-linear data structure that consists of nodes and edges.

what is the difference between the HashTable and HashMap?
HashMap is not synchronous, but HashTable is. Hashmap also allows null keys and null values.
HashTable does not allow any null keys or values.
Hashmap can be easier to use.

What are the major data structures used in the following areas : RDBMS, Network data model and Hierarchical data model.
RDBMS – array
Network data model – graph
Hierarchical data model - tree

How HashMap works in java?
It uses multiple buckets to store nodes.
Hashmap is a data structure that allows us to store objects and retrieve it at the same constant time.

What is ArrayIndexOutOfBoundsException in java? When it occurs?
This occurs when we are trying to access index that are out of bounds.
Any index that does not exist in the array will cause this to occur.

What are the different ways of copying an array into another array?
Clone method, create a new array, or use variable assignment.

What is difference between an array and a linked list?
An array is a collection of elements with a similar data type.
LinkedList is an ordered collection of elements of the same type.
Array elements can be accessed randomly but it is not possible in linked lists.

What is DFS and BFS?
DFS is Depth First Search – uses Stack data structure
BFS is Breadth First Search – uses Queue data structure for finding shortest path

What is Recursion?
This is when a method calls itself and the consequence is a loop.

What are linear and non linear data Structures?
Linear data structures are like stack, array, queue, and list and nonlinear data structures are graphs and trees.

What is Big-(O)-notation?
The complexity of the code.

Outlined different kind of sorting algorithm with time complexity?
Time complexity is the number of items it takes for a particular instruction to execute rather than the total time it takes.

Draw a table with time complexity in which it will summarize all the data structure feature's advantages and disadvantages.
  a)In terms of Accessing element.
  b)In terms of Inserting element.
  c)In terms of Searching element.
  d)In terms of Removing element.


